# Alpha 1

> The initial alpha build; what I thought would be a solid base for future expansion

## TLDR

- A tight timescale is brilliant for keeping you on task
- Don't waste ANY time on scaling, such as:
    - custom build configuration
    - folder structure
    - routing
    - normalised data
    - Vuex
- Use anything you can to save time:
    - a JS and UI framework
    - demo code from plugins
    - copied code
- Look at as many demos as you can, and if one does it better, take inspiration / plagiarise!


## Overview

I planned to build a robust starting setup that would show potential to scale, including:

- logically siloed folders
- Webpack aliases
- routing
- Vuex (state, actions, mutations, etc)
- a normalised data structure

Once in place, I expected it to be reasonably simple to build the actual Trello clone.


## Diary

#### 30m - Project setup

Installed project using Vue CLI 3.

This was a mistake as I discovered quite quickly that there wasn't a webpack `base.config` I could edit like my other projects (Vue CLI 3 had only just come out). Vue CLI 3 abstracts the config into functions, which I did not have time to learn, which meant it would be time-consuming to add Webpack [folder aliases](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/resolve/#resolve-alias).

I deleted the project and created a new project using Vue CLI 2.

In the install I added [Vuex](https://vuex.vuejs.org/) and [Vue Router](https://router.vuejs.org/). Upon completion I added [Lodash](https://lodash.com/), [VeeValidate](https://github.com/baianat/vee-validate), and [Vue.Draggable](https://github.com/SortableJS/Vue.Draggable) via NPM.

Next I updated the linting, enabling `comma-dangle`.

I then refactored the folder structure to something a little more friendly for a robust project setup:

```folders
+- src
    +- app
    |   +- routes
    |   +- state
    |   +- views
    |   |   +- elements
    |   |   +- ui
    |   +- utils
    +- core
    |   +- components
    |       +- ui
    +- res
        +- styles
```

Then, I set up webpack aliases to the most common folders, so I wouldn't need to type `@src/app/views/elements` etc all the time.

#### 30m - Routing and Vuex

Having moved `home/` and `about/` pages I realised that adding content to them at this early stage was going to be a waste of time, so I removed the routing, Home and About pages, as well as the navigation markup.

I then removed the `<router-view>` an in its place added a new `Board` component, which contained a looped `List` component, which contained a looped `Task` component.

Note that at this stage the data would need to be passed down as props (which turned out to be a mistake! Having the 2D data in one component would be much easier). 

Next, I looked to set up Vuex. 

I set up Vuex with an initial module, with a single state property `lists` and CRUD  mutations for lists and tasks:

```js
const state = {
  lists: [],
  tasks: [],
}

const mutations = {
  addList(state) { ... },
  updateList(state, list) { ... },
  addTask(state, {list, task}) { ... },
  updateTask(state, task) { ... },
  // move list, move task, etc
}
```

Whilst writing the stub Vuex mutations I realised at this point that the normalised lists approach was a bad idea and just too complex for a fast prototype!

I removed the tasks and mocked up some JS for nested lists and items:

```js
const lists = [
  {
    id: 1,
    title: 'List 1',
    items: [
      {
        id: 2,
        title: 'Task 1',
        description: 'This is Task 1',
        date: null
      },
      ...
    ]
  },
  ...  
]
```

#### 30m - Views and components
 
At this point, I realised I needed some nice looking text inputs to create lists and add items to lists.

Realising I would need to use a text input multiple times, plus it would need to look nice, a component was the obvious choice. I began to build a component from scratch, then realised that an hour in, I really needed to save time, so I grabbed a text input, button and modal component from another technical test I'd done a few days earlier.

Those components had a great structure, props and events so probably saved a good couple of hours all in! They were also based on [Bulma](http://bulma.io) so looked great with next to no effort on the CSS.

At this point, I began to work on the drag an drop. 

Without any DOM, CSS or events to get me started, it suddenly looked like I had a lot of work to do, and I was about 1:30 in to a supposedly 4-hour task, minus an hour for unit tests.

Rather than code everything from scratch, I needed some demo code I could at least copy and paste to get me started; I could "make it mine" after the fact.

Looking at the main [multi-list demo](https://github.com/SortableJS/Vue.Draggable/blob/master/examples/Two_Lists.html) on the Vue.Draggable site, it was clear that it wasn't built using SFCs. I started looking at the additional code, then seeing if there was a live demo, and it became apparent that this library wasn't really set up for modern development (even if it worked, I wasn't going to risk something not working later).

At this point, I decided to go back to the [Awesome Vue Drag and Drop](https://github.com/vuejs/awesome-vue#drag-and-drop) examples and see if there was a plugin that might just have everything ready to go. As luck would have it, the second to last drag and drop plugin [Vue Smooth Dnd](https://github.com/kutlugsahin/vue-smooth-dnd) didn't just have a [demo link](https://kutlugsahin.github.io/vue-smooth-dnd/) on the readme, but it defaulted to the Cards demo, and was super-smooth! On top of that, the demo code was a SFC, so it looked like it would be a quick win.

Quickly copying and pasting the code in, it was clear that I had been going about things the wrong way:

- everything was done in one file, no nesting of components
- no Vuex 


## Conclusion


My ideas to build in flexibility from the outset, to over-deliver and wow them with clever touches went out the window when I realised I'd spent 45 minutes installing plugins, rearranging the folders and modifying the webpack config to something that would scale up in some hypothetical future.  


Total time

Summary of the above



What happened was that I didn't manage to build what has been tasked in the time, and that made me question a LOT of things:

- Was it possible?
- Was it reasonable request?
- What could I have done differently?
- Maybe I'm not as good as I thought I was?
- Did I concentrate too much on quality at the expense of delivery?
- Should this matter, if there's no point delivering shit-quality work anyway?
- Should I have known this wasn't going to be possible?
- Could other developers have delivered where I did not?


### Outcome

Notable points about the test:

- the short timescale was good, as it forced you to concentrate and get things done
- the timescale itself was unrealistic and did not take into account many of the tasks that sh

and the  what progressed into a longer term project to build something useful







As this is a technical test, I thought it would be interesting to document the development process, just how long everything took.

When you're working in the coding bubble, it's very difficult to accurately post-estimate how long things take. Also, mistakes get made, or perhaps you change your mind, or need to refactor! This all takes time.

Planning

- 3 hours - trying out Trello, checking out plugins
- 1 hour - planning architecture, making rough sketches

Setup

- 45 mins - create starter repo, move files, configure webpack


Set up



So this has been a massive learning lesson in time management!

Even the setup, webpack re-config, and initial folder  re-structuring and `main.js` setup took about 45 minutes all in. 

Initially, I planned to use Vuex. That went out the window quite quickly when it became apparent from a DnD plugin that commits and dispatches and the "otherness" of a Vuex module was a massive overhead that just wasn't needed for something like this.
I had also planned a backend-friendly data structure, rather than a nested structure, and was going to use some kind of transformation function to achieve this. Turns out that that this kind of strategic thinking was – again – just going to eat up time.

After finding my initial DnD plugin a bit clunky, I went to Awesome Vue and tried each of the DnD plugins in turn, and came across 

I ended up ditching Vuex about an hour and a half in and using Vue's local data() which was much, much easier while prototyping. Once this was done, and everything was working,  

For anyone who's interested, the repo is online here: https://github.com/davestewart/vue-trello-clone

I've found the whole process so interesting, I'm going to document all the decisions and times everything took in a diary on the site Wiki, and will continue to update it as I add features.

