# Beta 1

> Adding the final bits of code to complete the original brief's requirements

## TLDR

- Complex tasks can be more easily-completed when broken down into discrete phases (even if refactoring is required):
    - solve data structure using simple JS, then migrate to Vuex
    - solve form input using inline forms, then migrate to components
- Don't sweat the small stuff till you have to:
    - adding polish at the end prevents fiddling and feature creep at the beginning
    - you never know if you'll even need something by the end anyway, so skip it if you can

## Overview

With the core code in, this first Beta is what I see as completing all the requirements of the original [brief](../intro/brief.md), primarily to:

- add validation
- add persistence
- make the code more maintainable
- add unit tests

The pressure to complete the core app functionality was now off, though being being behind schedule it was interesting to see just how long things might take.

!> Bear in mind that the times on the repo are accurate - I was doing the majority of the work for this phase in the middle of the night... tiredness has an impact!


## Diary - 5 to 6 hours

#### 30m - Extract form functionality 

With the main `Board` component looking quite bloated, it was time to separate concerns. The first thing to move was the form functionality to a new component, which was reasonably easy:

- the form components were composed inside the existing (empty) `UiForm` component
- the form's `data` property stored the values required to to describe a task
- values could be passed in to the new component via a `show()` (later to be renamed to `fill()`) method
- values were passed out via a `@submit` event

Some additional logic was required for the overall usability of the modal / form combination:

- some new form code took care of resetting values on submit and focusing elements on open
- the modal required some additional code to manage dismissability and keyboard interaction

This took a bit of fiddling, nothing major, but polish always requires some decision-making.



#### 1h 30m - Move state management to Vuex

The current state management was looking good from the point of view of a functional prototype:

- the data structure was finalised and working
- drag and drop handlers were simply and cleanly interfacing with data

This was a very different situation to Alpha 1, where the combination of having to design the drag and drop AND state management at the same time felt almost completely overwhelming! However, the state's API and the drag and drop code was tightly coupled; that is, it would be impossible to modify the state without using the keyboard and mouse.

Time to refactor the functionality using Vuex.

The migration was in fact [reasonably straightforward](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/commit/995d5780e2e01815b8c829e46333b7041b3b3097):

- move the list update API (`addList`, `moveList`, etc) from component methods to Vuex mutations
- abstract the Vue Smooth DnD-specific handler code so the handlers could interface directly with Vuex
- add the UUID package to provide unique IDs to reference lists
- refactor the list helpers to be Vuex not component or DOM-specific
- do some other tidying up on the way

At this point, I could also add the [Vuex Persisted State](https://github.com/robinvdvleuten/vuex-persistedstate) plugin which took literally a couple of lines to implement and handled state persistence and hydration automatically!

#### 1h 30m - Polishing

Things were looking pretty final now, but in my tired state circa 12:30am I wanted to press on with a bit of a hit list to get a few last tweaks done to make the app feel a little more presentable, and the code a little more maintainable.

!> The 1:30 listed above was more accurately about 2:30 - due to the lateness of the hour!

- Adding a [reset button](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/commit/e372bac2fde9da5f82ed2f425c9d340f883e6286) meant a bit of UI, styling and a new Vuex mutation.

- A bit of TLC with the `UiItemEntry` component gave it better icon management and disabled the button if no text had been entered
 
- The store got [remove](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/commit/1bcef2e0ff88aaf2374ba60d925554d3806db041) functionality for both `lists` and `items` with a bit of attention given to the state helper functions to make them more useable from the main store module.

- I added [form validation](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/commit/43777e2a62ef3d843d4c81038e71889e26be661f) quickly and easily using [Vee Validate](https://baianat.github.io/vee-validate/api/mixin.html).

- I improved [date handling](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/commit/81b3555bcb46a5ea11b21f0be5c171c4b27ee9e0) as I finally had the time to do a bit of fiddling, including a simpler format and different icons for upcoming and due.

- I added an [edit mode](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/commit/32b10897ee9bd87e84e294f8bfd2ab776917c4a2) which although not required, felt like it should be a simple and useful add. Overall it was simple, but I needed to disambiguate between `add` and `edit` events which took a little more code.

Aside from this there were a few other edits and tidy ups which I actually completed the next morning once sleep caught me in her clutches...


#### 2h - Added basic unit tests

The unit tests were really the last task in the brief.

In my day-to-day work I generally don't write tests, so it was going to be a learning experience, if not conceptually, then certainly practically:

- [Jest](http://jestjs.io/docs/en/getting-started)
- [Jest cheat sheet](https://github.com/sapegin/jest-cheat-sheet)

Some [advice given on Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/vuejs/comments/8p9l61/unit_testing_for_an_interview_coding_test) suggested concentrating mainly on Vuex as testing pure functions was easier than testing a component that may be subject to change in the prototyping process.

Before I could write any tests I discovered that my [Webpack aliases](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/blob/master/build/webpack.base.conf.js#L40-L56) required Jest to have a virtually [identical setup](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/blob/master/test/unit/jest.conf.js#L14-L25) so it could load my components where I'd [used aliases](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/blob/master/src/app/App.vue#L14). The research and testing for this took a while; difficult to estimate now, but probably at least 30 minutes.
  

Luckily the scaffolded Jest tests included a "HelloWorld" spec which I was [able to modify](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/commit/589dde5bf74c55e9e34b2f5ab892d5d77c549b8e?diff=unified#diff-b44fed5f5d1f9b17bf4f7b2593c17b2a) to test a `Card` component. I tested a couple of props, then decided to move on.

Next, I moved to test Vuex as suggested.

I added [some basic tests](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/commit/42f8332080b4dda39dd06df0114ab5d69fdad5c4) to add and move some items:

- `addList` should add a new `list`
- `addList` should add a second `list`
- `addItem` should add a new `item`
- `moveItem` should move an `item` to another `list`

It was during the last test, which I thought should be straightforward, that I discovered that Vue Smooth Dnd had some weird behaviour that I had previously not realised - the drop helper fires once for each list, and the [helper function](https://github.com/kutlugsahin/vue-smooth-dnd/blob/master/src/demo/pages/utils.js) only fires for the move when `addedIndex` and `removedIndex` are not `null`. This made my existing `moveList` function **only** work when used with the helper function, and not when called manually.

I decided to [make an issue](https://github.com/kutlugsahin/vue-smooth-dnd/issues/16) to find out more about the intended behaviour, and luckily the author was kind enough to reply quite quickly. With a bit of to-and-fro questioning, I realised that the existing behaviour wasn't going to change any time soon, so I had to make a workaround [helper class](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/commit/b927526163042c10f3e4b8371849975ca9ea33fc#diff-39d2e940a60059f261f0176510bcb93e) that would store up the events and only fire when it had the `from` and `to` indices.

This allowed me to complete the `moveItem` test, and now, as far as I was concerned, I was out of time.
 

## Conclusion

#### Tackle complex tasks in smaller stages

The main learning was just how easy it had been (in hindsight) to manage the most complex task; the interface between the state management and the drag and drop. Building everything in vanilla JS, in one file, and **only** when working, refactoring to Vuex made it a much less overwhelming task to tackle.

In the early stages I probably wasted as much time fretting about or planning the "big" units of work as I would have done making progress by building them in smaller, more easily-manageable phases.

#### Don't add detail early

The other learning was realising that "polishing" tasks – whilst seeming insignificant in themselves – soon added up on time. If you're really looking to get something out in a hurry, absolutely save these for the end, even if you're really itching to do them earlier.




