# Documentation for the diary site

> Building the site to promote the diary

## TLDR

I spent too long getting the text for the site perfect, and should have written up the diary process first.

- Get the intro right, but don't fuss on it
- Do the diary before the readme

## Overview

Information about the task

Expectations on what should be acheived

## Diary

#### 2h - task

What happened

#### 1.5h - task

What happened

...


## Conclusion


My ideas to build in flexibility from the outset, to over-deliver and wow them with clever touches went out the window when I realised I'd spent 45 minutes installing plugins, rearranging the folders and modifying the webpack config to something that would scale up in some hypothetical future.  


Total time

Summary of the above



What happened was that I didn't manage to build what has been tasked in the time, and that made me question a LOT of things:

- Was it possible?
- Was it reasonable request?
- What could I have done differently?
- Maybe I'm not as good as I thought I was?
- Did I concentrate too much on quality at the expense of delivery?
- Should this matter, if there's no point delivering shit-quality work anyway?
- Should I have known this wasn't going to be possible?
- Could other developers have delivered where I did not?


### Outcome

Notable points about the test:

- the short timescale was good, as it forced you to concentrate and get things done
- the timescale itself was unrealistic and did not take into account many of the tasks that sh

and the  what progressed into a longer term project to build something useful







As this is a technical test, I thought it would be interesting to document the development process, just how long everything took.

When you're working in the coding bubble, it's very difficult to accurately post-estimate how long things take. Also, mistakes get made, or perhaps you change your mind, or need to refactor! This all takes time.

Planning

- 3 hours - trying out Trello, checking out plugins
- 1 hour - planning architecture, making rough sketches

Setup

- 45 mins - create starter repo, move files, configure webpack


Set up



So this has been a massive learning lesson in time management!

Even the setup, webpack re-config, and initial folder  re-structuring and `main.js` setup took about 45 minutes all in. 

Initially, I planned to use Vuex. That went out the window quite quickly when it became apparent from a DnD plugin that commits and dispatches and the "otherness" of a Vuex module was a massive overhead that just wasn't needed for something like this.
I had also planned a backend-friendly data structure, rather than a nested structure, and was going to use some kind of transformation function to achieve this. Turns out that that this kind of strategic thinking was – again – just going to eat up time.

After finding my initial DnD plugin a bit clunky, I went to Awesome Vue and tried each of the DnD plugins in turn, and came across 

I ended up ditching Vuex about an hour and a half in and using Vue's local data() which was much, much easier while prototyping. Once this was done, and everything was working,  

For anyone who's interested, the repo is online here: https://github.com/davestewart/vue-trello-clone

I've found the whole process so interesting, I'm going to document all the decisions and times everything took in a diary on the site Wiki, and will continue to update it as I add features.

