# 1.0 Release

> Addition of missing functionality to mark a first public release

## TLDR

- The application is launched with full features
- Total time for final release is nearly 20 hours:
    - R&D took 6 hours
    - Alpha took 4 hours
    - Polish took 10 hours
- Fast prototyping is possible, but only when you keep it simple

## Overview

This first public release aimed to add features omitted by the original brief:

- board functionality:
    - ability to edit lists
    - ability to remove lists and tasks
    - a dummy demo / empty state

- improvements to board state API:
    - fix weird Smooth Vue DnD functionality
    - improve move item method signature
    - improve item and list parameters and referencing
    - add a robust load data function

The goal is to get the application in a robust state for a 1.0 release that would add core features that would make the clone actually useable for public use.

## Diary

> Total time: 4h 20m

#### 1hr - Fix weird Vue Smooth DnD behaviour

Whilst writing unit tests for the Beta, I discovered that Vue Smooth DnD's behaviour for communicating a drag was a little funky.

I decided to [make an issue](https://github.com/kutlugsahin/vue-smooth-dnd/issues/16) to find out more about the intended behaviour, and luckily the author was kind enough to reply quite quickly. With a bit of to-and-fro questioning, I realised that the existing behaviour wasn't going to change any time soon, and as I didn't want the store to be governed by the plugin, I would need to write a adapter. 

It took a little bit of thinking to accomplish, but wasn't too much work to write a [helper class](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/commit/b927526163042c10f3e4b8371849975ca9ea33fc#diff-39d2e940a60059f261f0176510bcb93e) that would store up the events and only fire when it had the `from` and `to` indices. This cleaned up the board API nicely, and allowed me to write a sensible [move item test](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/blob/master/test/unit/specs/store/board.spec.js#L65-L69). 


#### 20m - Added demo functionality

I wanted to add some kind of empty state for demo users, so anyone coming to the app afresh could at least get an idea of what it could do without having to make new lists and tasks.

My initial stab was to add a text link on the `App` page which worked well. I decided to move it soon after to be a button that showed instead of the existing `Reset` button if there were no items (this could be refactored later).

Initially, I just set the new `board.state` directly from the JSON, but then realised this bypassed the `makeItem()` functionality which was my second line of validation against bad data, so I refactored to loop over lists and tasks to use `addList()` and `addItem()`.


#### 1h - Improve list and task referencing within the API

Now that the API was nearly finished, I had begun to notice that some of the referencing was a little clunky, using `id`s here, references there, etc. I suspected that `getList()` and `getItem()` could be updated to pass any kind of reference (`index`, `id`, `list/item`) and they could. Adding this functionality then only going through `getItem()` cleaned up the store code tremendously.


#### 1h 30m - Added edit list functionality

A little trickier than I first suspected, due to the simple nature of the edit not requiring a modal to edit the list, so requiring different behaviour than the existing edit components.

Initially, I planned to click an edit icon, exactly like the `Card` components, to swap out the list label for an edit field. However, it felt fiddly and weird clicking a tiny icon, so I decided to make the whole label clickable.

After adding the initial code to `create`, `focus`, `enter`, `cancel` and `blur` the new input field, it became obvious that the functionality belonged in some kind of "inline edit" component rather than a custom "header edit" component. As such, a little extra effort was taken [to create this interim component](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/commit/52f76cb4a9b650a8f67330464d5e474a8d6cd710), then a bit of fiddling with the existing components to [create a cohesive API](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/commit/27b5069d6c598508a383525b1a54b287c80d634d) for all edit-type components with `@submit` and `@cancel` events.

#### 2m - Changing edit item behaviour

With the list titles now being editable on click, it felt weird editing the items using an icon, so I made the items editable by clicking instead of clicking an icon.

#### 5m - Add remove item behaviour

With the lists now editable by clicking, it was next to no effort to change the "edit item" icon to a "remove item" icon, and wire up the store event handlers.

#### 25m - Add remove list behaviour

The [remove list](https://github.com/davestewart/app-diary/commit/2eead960d9f9f0fe9a8c09267747c13deda87f7f#diff-3f22133c492e7ba08efbcededf158e00) functionality took a little more effort, as the additional functionality to show / hide the icon and trigger the behaviour required an interim component to be built. As such, the handlers, styles and markup was moved to a new `ListHeader` component, then events were forwarded to the `Board` component, and a little extra styling added.

There might have been better ways to do this, but at this point, I wanted it finished!


## Conclusion

The final release has really just been features and polish, so let's look at the project as a whole.

#### Overall times


Looking at the figures for all phases, we get the following:

Phase|Time|Cumulative Time
---|---|---
Planning    | 4h 30m | 4h 30m
Pre-alpha   | 1h 30m | 6h
Alpha       | 3h 15m | 9h 15m
Beta        | 5h 30m | 14h 45m
Release     | 4h 30m | 19h 15m

<style>
.markdown-section table {
    margin-left: 20px;
}
.markdown-section td {
    padding-right: 50px;
}
</style>

Breaking that down, we get:

- R&D: **6 hours**
- Alpha: **4 hours**
- Polish: **10 hours**


#### It pays to keep it simple

So excluding R&D, it does seem to be possible to get a working prototype done in about 20% of the time with only stripped-down features:
 
- only core features
- no edit or delete
- no validation
- no persistence
- non-optimised code
- no visual polish
- no tests
- no mind-changing
 
#### Golden rules
 
Looking at everything we've done so far, the following stands out:
 
- core features **must be** basic! Don't add any "nice to haves"
- research and plan, but only for **basic functionality**
- if you're going to make mistakes, **make them early** and move on
- **keep it simple** to start with! No layers of folders or architecture
- use the **Clint Eastwood**™ technique to get it built:
    - The **Good**: frameworks
    - The **Bad**: borrowing code – from yourself or others 
    - The **Ugly**: simple code, non-optimised code
- don't get drawn in to **fiddling** or polish
