# Alpha

> A much-simplified build that prioritised build speed and core functionality

## TLDR

Structure:

- Vuex at such an early stage added too many physical and cognitive layers
- Building everything in one file made it simpler to reason about the data

Time:

- A tight timescale is brilliant for keeping you on task
- Learn to be aware of how quickly time passes and where you are spending it
- Some tasks just take time:
    - skip unnecessary tasks
    - simplify tasks if you start to get bogged down
    - learn to spot the tasks that are time-sucks

Cheat:

- Use anything you can get you ahead of the game:
    - a JS and UI framework
    - demo code from plugins
    - copied code

## Overview

Almost halfway through the given test time and realising that time really was of the essence, I had decided to start afresh, building on top of the Vue Smooth DnD demo. It was also clear that I'd over-complicated the data structure and state management in the first Alpha, so it was time to put everything in a single file try and make fast progress.

This alpha stage, whilst not planned, completed the lion's share of the app's functionality:

- presentation
- drag and drop
- keyboard input
- modal
- form
- validation
- data update

## Diary

> Total time: 3 to 4 hours

#### 30m - drag and drop functionality

Having tested the DnD in the previous Alpha, the core demo code was migrated pretty much verbatim into a new `Board` component, which replaced the `<router-view>` directly in `App`. I also added the styles, though there was a lot of them, which I would go through and clean up once the functionality was in.

Pretty much straight away this gave life to the core of the app, but I spent some additional time refactoring the data structure to something more elegant, adding unique ids, as well as modifying methods and data construction to something that was easier to read using `list()` and `task()` helpers.

The most noticeable differences were:

- component hierarchy in one file
- `list` and `task` data in the same file
- list reordering for free!


#### 15m - Core UI components

!> Note that 15m for core UI components is an absolute cheat! I used some reusable components I'd made for another project to get up and running quickly, and I advise you to do the same.

The next step was to create some nice-looking text inputs to add lists and add items. Realising any input would need to be used multiple times, plus it would need to look nice, a component was the obvious choice.

I began to build a basic input component from scratch. It wasn't long before a feeling for Deja Vu kicked in, as I'd made a small set of components a few days ago for [another technical test](http://github.com/davestewart/vue-customer-query), so rather than rebuild the wheel, I copied them into the project.

This was where my base folder hierarchy and webpack aliases really paid off, as the new components sat under `core/` so had a place to live separately from the application code, and could be used straight away:

```folders
+- core
    +- mixins
    |   +- field.js
    +- ui
        +- UiButton.vue
        +- UiInput.vue
        +- UiModal.vue
        +- index.js
```

The components already had great structure, props and events so probably saved a good couple of hours all in! They were also based on [Bulma](http://bulma.io) so looked great with next to no effort on the CSS.

#### 30m - Initial list and task creation

With the inputs in, the next step was to build the interface so new lists and tasks could be created.

Having first played with using the `UiInput` controls directly to add lists, it became apparent that it would be better to compose them inside new, more interactive components, so I created `UiItemEntry` components which had a button and detection for `CTRL+ENTER` so I could make keyboard entry more fluid.

Adding one of the new controls at the end of the lists allowed new lists to be added, and adding one of them at the bottom of each list allowed tasks to be added.


#### 45m - Additional task properties

The next step was to allow the creation of additional task properties such as  `description` and `date`.

Using the previously added `UiModal` component and some Bulma copy/pasted code it was trivial to add a form-style layout with buttons. The form was designed with the modal forced to `show` at all times.

Although a new `Form` component was created, it ended up being faster and easier creating both the form and component and form model *inline* in the `Board` component, rather than mucking about with props.

Wiring in submit handlers and data update was fast and easy, although there was some additional fiddling to add in the cancel and close handlers. 

At this point the Board file was beginning to feel quite large and a little cumbersome, but having all code and markup in one place felt surprisingly good for seeing the "big picture".


#### 30m - Improving the card layout

With the additional `description` and `date` properties now available, the task rendering now needed a small component to show the additional data.

A `Card` component was quickly created which thanks to Bulma's [card](https://bulma.io/documentation/components/card/) classes was super easy to style.

The most difficult bit at this point turned out to be the date calculations, which I flip-flopped on for a while. Should I use a `timestamp` or a `Date`? There were 3 places the date needed to be used:

- in the UI date-picker as a `DD-MM-YYYY` string
- in the task JSON as an easily serialisable `timestamp` or `Date`
- in the computed properties as an easily comparable `Number`

At this point I made the decision to store the date as a timestamp.

#### 45m - General tidying up and tweaking

A good deal of time was spent between the cracks, tidying things up and tweaking. I cant remember everything that was done, but it probably included:

- importing, checking and removing styles
- tweaking and improving data structures
- writing helper functions
- creating and solving bugs
- running and testing the app

And finally, with pretty much the majority of the new board code in, it was time to remove routing and Vuex, and move a few files around.


## Conclusion

#### Time

The short timescale leaves absolutely no time for **anything** organisation or architectural, and that's actually good - it forces you to concentrate **only** on the problem at hand.

The timescale itself at this point, roughly 5 or 6 hours in, also looked completely  unrealistic; it hadn't left any room for research, experimentation, mistakes or finesse and I was still reasonably far away from the full task list, including:

- validation
- persistance
- separation of concerns
- unit tests


#### Personal reflection

So at this point, it's clear I didn't manage to build what had been tasked in the time, and that made me question a LOT of things:

- Was it possible?
- Was it reasonable request?
- What could I have done differently?
- Maybe I'm not as good as I thought I was?
- Did I concentrate too much on quality at the expense of delivery?
- Should this matter, if there's no point delivering shit-quality work anyway?
- Should I have known this wasn't going to be possible?
- Could other developers have delivered where I did not?

These questions have hopefully been answered by the Diary project as an exercise in itself, and will continue to be answered – or just reflected – as an ongoing process.

The one thing that the endeavour has made me realise, is that **some things just take time** and fast-prototyping aside, it's a reminder to guard against both **optimism** and **feature creep**, both of which can suck up time in quite different ways.


